Candidate (first name – last
name): Samuele Bumbaca
Title of the Thesis: Geomatic Techniques to Support Phytosanitary Products Tests whithin the
EPPO Standard Framework
Supervisor (first name – last name): Enrico Corrado Borgogno Mondino
Name of the reviewer: Giovanna Sona
Reviewer’s institution: Università degli Studi di Milano - DiSAA
Please rate the following points
Insufficient
Overall scientific merit
(originality, relevance, completeness)
Introduction and bibliography
(sufficient information provided by the
introduction, appropriate cited
references)
Methodology
(clearly described methods, adequate
and exhaustive data analysis (if
applicable)
Results
(convincing and clearly presented
results, adequate number and quality of
tables and figures)

Sufficient

Good

Excellent

X

X

X

X

Overall evaluation (please check one)
The candidate can be admitted to the final examination
The candidate can be admitted to the final examination but the thesis requires
minor revision; further evaluation by the reviewer is not required
To be admitted to the final examination the thesis requires extensive revision;
the revised version must be provided within 6 months and must be re-evaluated
by the reviewer (even not the same)
X

Specific comments and
suggestions [mandatory]
The thesis needs a deep revision.
It has a very confused structure, that makes it very difficult to understand the relevance and
originality of the research, and the results.
Here follows a short non-exhaustive list of remarks.










The thesis is missing of real introductory chapter, a first one that is a summary, to make the
reader understand the main topic or the research, the purpose of the work and the workflow
of the research.
Then should follow a state of the art and literature review part, with a focus of the open issues
and motivation and structure of the thesis.
Chapter 1 indeed is not an introduction, but a list of methods and techniques that will be used
to develop the thesis work, I suppose.
Paragraph 1.4 must be moved at the beginning
Many different statistical methods are mentioned in different paragraphs, and this also is
confusing.
Ch.1.3 could be splitted in a geostatistic part, and in a part that describe methods that make
use of digital images, common RGB or Multispectral, in a photogrammetric processing
workflow.
The products (DEM and Orthophotos) then can be used to build indices, and so on.
Vague definitions should be replaced with more appropriate and technically correct ones (f.i. :
‘Photogrammetry is a technique used to obtain reliable information about physical objects and
the environment…’)
At page 23 in the description of the principal steps of a photogrammetric processing
workflow, there is a substantial big mistake : the Exterior Orientation of images cannot be ‘
achieved by identifying and matching common points (tie points) in overlapping images and
using these points to solve or the camera parameters.’.
In fact, E.O. parameters cannot be determined by using tie points only!



If some parts are already published in a journal (as Ch.2.2) this should be mentioned. (is there
any supplementary material ?)



The Reference lists are in a very weird format : a mix of numbers and alphabetical order.
Some documents are missing of true reference (f.i. [8] Alan Agresti. Analysis of Ordinal
Categorical Data., in 2.2)



Last : many typos have been found, starting from the title itself! Please revise the English
language.

--------------------------------------

Date and Signature : 17 June
2025 --------------------------------------

